# Most Cold Emails Are Trash. Here's What Jason Bay Is Doing Instead.

- **Author:** Jason Bay
- **Video ID:** HIuvLo23R2M
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HIuvLo23R2M
- **Published:** 2025
- **Collected:** 2026-06-20

## Summary

New outbound strategy for 2025: offer-led messaging, weekly touch volume, and why generic personalization fails.

## Transcript

out of. What's up everyone? Hey Tom. Tom's in New York. Where in New York are you Tom? I'm from Albany. We got Doug in Chicago, southern Arizona. Geez, I didn't even know that supposed to be like Mexico basically. Okay, now Okay, now everyone's in here. We usually play a game called uh how far away from Well, usually it's Austin, but we can do Seattle or Denver. Uh but someone comes in from like India or New Zealand as I saw someone up there. Uh Maline Cooper coming in for New Zealand, taking the cake early. But uh All right. Well, folks, welcome back to Unfuck My Startup. Uh I'm Pete Crowley. I'm the head of growth here at RB2B. Adam is on an airplane right now coming back from our executive offsite. But today we have a fantastic guest with us. Uh I I really view him as like a a true sales scientist. the way he breaks down everything, the way he looks at sales and marketing. Uh, he's built teams at Zoom Info Gong. He's trained over a thousand sales reps. He was the audience's favorite guest of 2024. We did not get more requests for a recording from a show than we did for Jason Bay last August. The show has changed a bit since Jason's been here, but uh, he is back to take that crown again for 2025. We're so thrilled to be joined today by Jason Bay. Jason, welcome back to the show, my friend. What's going on? Good to be here. I, uh, a lot of pressure I got to live up to today, apparently. So, uh, thanks for having me. I'm looking forward to it. Someone was asking about the show today. I was like, actually, this should be an easy one. Like, this guest, uh, just came with such such a punch last time that uh, I'm feeling I all takes all the pressure off me. But I hope that doesn't then put it back on you. Um, so Jason, since the last time you were here, we started doing a couple of audience segments. So audience, we're going to do the pitch slap section. If you are new here, uh, audience, we have a, uh, uh, somebody from the audience come up every week and they pitch their company to all of you. Uh, the purpose of the pitch, as the purpose of most pitches, is to get a demo, to get some intrigue, to get some meetings on the calendar. Uh today we have Curtis Triber. Curtis is going to pitch us superend.io. Um Curtis doesn't look like is here yet. Um if he's not here in one second or maybe Samantha is Samantha here from Superend. Uh if not we will Oh Sam, you are here. Well Sam uh okay Curtis should be on. Let's give it another second. We'll do a little filibuster. Can we promote both Sam and uh and and uh Curtis to uh to to panelist John? Um and folks, if you would like to pitch next week, if you would like to pitch the audience, uh email producer rb2b.com. I'm dropping it into the chat right now. I'll look through everybody. What I go off of uh is just how much of a fit I think you will be to this audience if someone's selling to, you know, bunch of e-commerce businesses or whatever construction contractors. Uh yeah, it's just a disservice to everybody. So, uh Sam or not Sam, Curtis, sitting in Sam's seat, I believe. Curtis, how you doing? Oh, can you hear us? Hold on. We're we're we're working on it. Let's see. You're muted now. And folks, I just dropped in the Oh, I can't hear you. It says you're muted. No, I'm muted now. It went like unmuted then back muted. I wonder if I can like unmute you from here. I can't. There we go. Better. There we go. Okay, cool. There we go. All right, we did it. You're Curtis, right? You're not Sam. I am Curtis. I am not Sam. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Uh well, Curtis, welcome to the show. Uh Sam was so kind to uh to to set this up and have you pitch. I'm going to drop the super send email or not email URL. I just dropped it right into the Someone said 20 seconds left. Thank you, Richard. Um I just dropped the Super Send uh URL right into the um the chat here. And then Sam has dropped in your calendar uh your your your calendar uh invite into here as well. So you're all ready to go. Um you can feel free to share your screen as you uh if you'd like. Uh what we will do, we're going to have we're going to give you two minutes to pitch. Um and uh we'll run a poll about halfway through that says would you buy, would you not buy? Uh of course if you get over 60% we're going to send you this awesome hoodie and and some good some good swag. Um, at the end too, we'll have people drop in demo. We'll basically try to book you a bunch of demos. Uh, a good pitch usually gets between one and two dozen demos. So, um, just just so you have a good gauge, but uh, Curtis, I will turn it over to you. Tell us about Yeah, thanks Pete for having me on. Huge fan of uh, what you guys are doing, especially the the product and not only the the the show here. Uh it seems like I came on on a good a good show also because Jason Bay is uh going to be talking it sounds like kind of about a space that we're heavily involved in. So I think you matched that up perfect. I appreciate you appreciate you having us on. Um Super Send, it's basically everything you'd love about cold outreach from the tools you already know and love combined into a single platform. So we help teams that are doing um we help teams that are trying to scale outbound across three specific channels. uh email, LinkedIn, and Twitter. Um, but the sauce there is we do it all in a single sequence. So rather than trying to duct tape a few different tools together to execute your email outbound or your LinkedIn outbound or your Twitter outbound, uh, with Superend, you can do it all in a single sequence. Um, and it keeps the outreach really consistent, so it looks like it's coming from me, Curtis Triber, whether it's over email, Twitter, or or LinkedIn. Um, you know, I'd say the things that that that make us a bit unique. Now, aside from the multi- channelannel sequence is, you know, especially from a cold email perspective, I know Jason will probably be bringing up some some some key things to know about cold email. And I think a lot of people watching this show know sort of the pitfalls, but um, you know, we're a cold email platform, you know, that that layered in these other channels. So, what you can expect from us is things like warm-up, multi-inbox rotation. Um, you know, all of those things that make cold email like really, really scalable. Um, and I think, um, by having all of these channels in a single sequence, you not only like lower the complexity for teams and users, but you also increase your ability to get replies because you can hit people from uh multiple angles at scale in a single platform. Um, so that's superend in a nutshell. I'd say for any customer or somebody that's interested in learning more about the tool, come get us a demo. And and we also help you set everything up. So there's no weird uh trying to figure out inboxes and domains. We help all of our customers get everything from demo to first live campaign. Beautiful. Uh there was a question in here. How do you prevent LinkedIn blocking slashbanning with automation? Do you guys is there do you just have like a really low threshold for how much automation you do daily or Yeah. So I think safety is obviously the biggest concern with LinkedIn because people's LinkedIn profiles are very valuable. Um so yes we do have uh two two things. One obviously we're going to limit the number of connections to a really safe limit and and likes and profile visits and those sort of things. Um, but the other thing is is we every LinkedIn profile that we connect or that our users connect get their own dedicated mobile proxy. And so you you essentially as far as anybody else is concerned, it's just you and your house logging in on maybe your cell phone or your iPad um sitting at your desk. And so we just make that that that to to the people that look it looks as if you're just in your house logging in on your iPad. That's beautiful. And you do the warm-up and all of that. the, you know, inbox rotation, which as we all know is a huge part of email infrastructure these days. So, Curtis, say I'd say sender profile rotation for us because you may want to rotate some LinkedIn profiles in there, too. There we go. I like this changing of the nomenclature to uh to a company that the changing of the the market. So, that's that's good stuff, man. I like that. Um Curtis, we're going to send you a swag box. We'll send one out to Sam as well. You guys have been fantastic. Folks, audience, audience, audience, please drop in the word demo if you would like a demo with Curtis. Sam has been so kind. You'll see Sam Novak to drop in that calendar link. Look at that. Three demos. Come on. There's got to be more. There's got to be more. There's got to be more. Talking to all of you. There we go. All right. Uh yeah, Curtis, thank you so much for joining. Uh I love what you're doing and uh have a great day. Thank you. See you. All right. Well, that's the pitch slap, folks. audience, if you would like to pitch next week, email producerrb.com. And let's talk to Jason Bay, folks. Huh? Let's talk to Jason Bay. Jason, you put out a fantastic LinkedIn post maybe three weeks ago or so. Um, and you would stated a few things. You said, you know, the answer to your outbound problems isn't AI. It's not more volume. It's not more relevance. It is your offer. And I could not agree with that more. This is something I tout all the time uh to people in our community and and elsewhere. Can you explain why this why the offer is so critical, especially maybe if a buyer isn't actively shopping? Absolutely. Yeah, it's it's the thing that helps all of the messaging really punch through. And to give uh me a little more context, what I would love in the chat, can you let me know uh what are you doing related to cold outreach? Are you a rep that's sending out cold outreach? Are you making cold calls? Are you a sales lead? Are you a founder that's maybe doing some founder sales, has a sales team, drop it into the chat for me. I'd love a little bit of context on who you are so that I can customize this as much as possible. So the the irony, if we think of a cold email for a second, the irony is that the thing you want the most is a prospect's time. You want to book a meeting, but it's the worst possible thing you could ask for in an email. So statistically, we haven't even released this data yet, but Gong did a really big study for a cold email course that we're creating. They found that when you ask for a meeting, your reply rate goes down by 44%. Your reply rate goes down by 44%. So if you if you think about why that is, time and a demo of your solution is not valuable in it of itself. If a prospect, like the people that dropped demo into the chat today, it sounds like you're probably actively looking for something, but statistically only 3% of your market is in active buying mode. The rest of the people might be experiencing a problem that your solution can help with, but they need to be nudged a little bit more in order to take a meeting with you. So, the offer is a great way to get in touch with that 97% of people that are not actively looking for a solution like yours. So if I was to share my screen here, let me show you a little visual that you can use to think of this. So like I said there on the right, asking for time reduces reply rates by 44%. A compelling offer will actually increase your reply rate by 28%. There's three types of offers. So what you can think about here to make this a little more uh tangible for yourself is that graph on the left where it says value and effort. That is the value to the buyer, the prospect and the effort that they have to take in order to engage with your email, your cold call, etc. Okay. So, what that green line shows is that everything above the green line in the upper right quadrant there, once we hit something that is enough value for the buyer and the effort is kind of in that sweet spot of like it's not like a ton of effort and if it is, it better be a ton of value. those three offers kind of fit into that sweet spot. So, I'll go through those, uh, Pete, and then we maybe open it up for questions if you want. Um, so the easiest offer to implement right away is what I call the blind date. So, a bunch of you guys had dropped in the fact that you're in SDR. I saw some account executives in there. Um, essentially what you're doing with a blind date is you're pitching the expertise of the person they would be meeting with. So, I give you an example. Uh, I just wrapped up an engagement with a company that sells an automated welding solution. It is both hardware and software as a service. The SDRs would say things like this. Um, Pete, I'm going to put you in touch with Adam. He's been an account executive with us for close to a decade, and he's worked with trailer hitch brands like X, Y, and Z. And what he's going to be able to talk about is how some of these uh welders are using automated welding to automate some of those really really hard to automate parts. Oh, right. If you're selling cyber security as an account executive, you probably bring in someone that is a an a sales engineer, someone that has much more technical expertise than you. Um, if you're setting meetings for a founder or if you're a founder doing this and you maybe need to talk about your experience, like sell your experience. What are they going to get from that meeting even if they decide not to actively go through a uh a buying process with you? The second is one to many offers. So, these are like industry reports, benchmarks, etc. These are really great in emails too. A one to many offer sounds something like this. I had an ecom client um sorry they sold to ecom businesses. So they had their marketing department work with a third party and they mystery shopped 300 ecom companies and their whole thing was like outdoor brands. So it was like Northface was one of their clients etc. So what they did is they mystery shopped and what they had this third party do was analyze the channels in which they do customer support the average response time etc. So they could reach out and say, "Hey Pete, I was on the website. I'm reaching out because we actually mystery shopped you, North Face and Columbia, and we found that you have the longest response time to chat and email messages. You got a minute for me to share the reason why I decided to give you a call? It's Jason." So that's a really hard thing to say no to when you pick up the phone, right? You're still asking for the time. You're still asking for the time, but it's through this other mechanism that just creates a far more irresistible offer to at least take that call. It almost makes the call look like a gift a little. Exactly. Yes. So, you got to think about what is the thing that they would take away from that call with you that would make it valuable even if they decide not to purchase your solution. That is huge. That is huge right there. What are they going to get? How how can they how can you almost present as if they're going to like rip you off for your expertise in that 30 minutes in a way. Exactly. And if you're thinking like hey we don't have like a marketing asset like this like chat GPT you can use deep research to help you uh gather and find a lot of these insights. So it can be industry reports benchmarks best practices etc. And then last but not least is the onetoone offer. Um so I I'll use another example. We have another company that we work with that uh sells to also ecom companies, but what they do is a site audit. So, they'll they'll actually go through and load up something in the cart. They'll check to see if they get an automated message when you don't check out the cart, like a cart abandoned email. They'll go through and look for upsell opportunities, etc. and and and their offer is, you know, you know, Pete, we did a full audit from start to finish, purchased a product through your website, and we noticed three things you're not doing right now that are affecting average order value. And again, that one offer could be a cyber security benchmark assessment against their top two competitors. I mean, there's just all kinds of stuff you can do onetoone, but that is a custom offer just for that client, our prospective client. That's like an enterprise type of move there. That's what I wanted to ask. So that that would be more of a, you know, if you have your list of 100 hottest clients that you're like, we need to get these people. These are going to be, you know, whether it's top enterprise, you're you're almost going ABM with them. Um, that would be what that move is for to basically have a super custom uh just irresistible offer for that person. Yep. So the other thing too, a one-to-one offer also could be like an executive dinner that you organize in a city where they can meet up with a lot of their peers and get some insights. I mean there's just all kinds of stuff that you can offer. But you got to think about what is the thing that we are giving to them and promising during the time that they're going to meet with us so that they will get value during that time. We have a uh so just to uh let's contextualize this you threw an example from the question. So Jeff says how would you do that for uh say a productivity software we sell a reporting software to help PE funds collect data for uh from their from their port codes. Um, so Jeff, uh, my thinking would be if you sell reporting software to help PE funds collect data from their port codes, uh, what data are they collecting and can you anonymize it and put it together in a really cool report? Um, so I don't know, this could be average I don't know much about that industry. It could be average profitability, average time to close a deal. There's just um, how profitability has changed uh, since co. I mean, there's just all kinds of data points and reports that you could put together that where you pull this data across your client base. And then what you could do from a marketing standpoint is you could interview half a dozen of them, right? And and share some of the best practices, put that into a report that you go over in that first call or take snippets from that report and go over. Um, so do you want to just go through and answer some of these? There's some good questions actually. Yeah, absolutely. Uh, yeah, 100%. Guys, we're not going to be able to get to every single example just because I mean, look, we're in the world of sales and marketing. Everything's uh has to be contextualized with the market and the product and the audience that you're But uh we'll rip through uh we'll rip through a few of these. Are there are there is there some examples that you see here that stick out to you, Jason? Yeah. So, uh Hafa says, "Can you say more about dinner invites? How have you seen that work? Any tips?" Um yeah, we just did one actually in Austin back in February. Um so, we set up like an exec dinner for sales leaders. So my advice would be do something that is unique. We actually did a top chef competition. Adam Adam came to it. Um we had I think a dozen and a half sales leaders and a couple of other people and we had four chefs that uh hosted like an Iron Chef style cooking competition. So that was pretty cool. Like if you can do an event or something that's a bit unique and then center it around one of your clients, let's say that's uh wellknown or established or works for a well-known logo, that's like really really good value. But what I would do is I would make it unique. I I wouldn't just do like a fancy dinner. Like you don't have to spend as much money for these things as you think that you do if you if you want to do it on a budget. I like this like it's almost like interactive social proof is really what it is. It's like we have this guy who's going to be our guest che, you know, or whatever at this cooking event. He's a known customer. He's also known in the market and we're going to put these other people around him. If we're talking, if somebody in here is um starting out, has a lower budget, do you have an example of how to kind of do that same type of social proof using a um using an an existing high-profile client that they can convey digitally somehow? Is there a report? I mean, of course, case studies and the basics, but yeah. Yeah. I mean, you could you could also do like a lunch and learn virtually and just give people like a $30 Door Dash, you know, type of thing or $50 Door Dash, whatever you want to do. Like the topic and the speakers and the social proof is the most important thing. Um, people are asking, so for those of you that sell services, I sell services. Um there are free audit like I my best offer is a is an outbound performance audit and basically the the principle there is like hey I'll benchmark your perform your team's performance against top uh top-of-class sales brands like Shopify uh zoom gong etc. Uh I'll help you identify a couple areas where you're losing meetings and you'll walk away with a game plan to land more meetings and build more pipeline this quarter. Um so that's how I leverage it. software development. If you sell that, an example of something you could do is I think everyone wants to know about AI right now. You could take your existing clients and interview them or send out some sort of survey that says, "Hey, across our 100 clients, here are the ones that are using AI. Here's what they've replaced. Here's there's so many interesting data points. The questions that you can answer through that content." Think about the stuff that kind of fits into these four categories. What are the priorities of your buyer? So what are the OKRs, the objectives and key results that they're in charge of that they want to accomplish? What would go on a whiteboard if they had it right behind them? Two is current solutions. So how are they taking action on that right now? So if it's cyber security and they want to get more visibility into their manufacturing environment, maybe they're using spreadsheets and they have people manually go in there and do their thing. Third is what's the problem with that? The problem is that none of it's real time, right? All of the data that they're looking at is old. that exposes them. They don't know if something uh was exposed between now and the last time that they did an audit. And number four is aspirations. So, what do they ultimately want to accomplish? And what I always ask my clients, I ask this in sales calls, too, is something along the lines of let's say that you brought us in and you hired us to do a training with your with your team. 6 to 12 months from now, if you were looking back and said, "I'm so glad we brought an outbound squad. It had such a great ROI." what would have to happen in order for that to be true. And they'll give you all kinds of good stuff. So, priorities, current solutions, problems, aspirations, that'll give you all of the messaging that you need to know in order to create a really great piece of content like this. But there's an endless amount of things like those are the things that people want to get from an audit, what they want to get from a piece of content, etc. Do FZ just dropped in here. He said a why. Now, that's a huge component of an offer. And I think the a common theme through all the offers that you've taken us through Jason, whether it's the examples uh in in here or the slide you were sharing before is like what are you giving right? It's like you need to give you need to give something before they're going to give something back. And since you are the vendor, you are the seller, it's your responsibility and like your duty essentially to be the giver or be the first one to extend something outwards. Um, and that that's just a commonality. I mean, I you know, to your point, when there's folks who were just like, "Hey, I saw that RB2B does X." I'm talking about emails I get in my inbox, you know, would you mind sitting down for 15 minutes? Like, yeah, I kind of would like I don't really know how this is going to help me. I'm not going to get anything out of this. Like, you might get something. Maybe I'll I'll come across a good tool, but usually I find tools through I have a need. I I honestly ask Google Gemini, what's a good solution for this tool? that helps me shop and then I evaluate from there. Um, now that's my own personal thing, but just this whole idea of like, yeah, I've I've really never seen a sales cycle work, at least not a modern one, that doesn't have some extreme give at the uh at the front end. Um, so let's do um I think what we'll do, let's do our unfuck my startup section. Uh, so audience, we're going to call up somebody. We already have somebody for this week, but audience, if you would like to be on the Unfuck My Startup section. Uh, next week, uh, we have Eric Sue. He's a SEO, I guess, guru. We host a podcast with Neil Patel, CEO of Single Grain. Uh, just to give you context, if you're struggling with that area, email producer rb2b.com. We will pull you up. Today, we're going to bring up Lewis Nwistle. He's from getresponding.com. Lewis, are you here, my friend? and give us a little hand raise if you are. We'll promote you to panelist and then Oh my gosh, he's already here. Um and then what we're going to do um we're going to share the screen. We'll do uh we'll give you a few minutes to like two minutes to tell us your problem and everything and then uh we'll have Jason and myself if I have any good advice uh on uh on how to help you out and uh and get get responding uh trending upwards again. So, um, yeah, let's, uh, let's start that timer. Uh, let's just do two minutes and then we'll we'll kind of open up for discussion. So, I'm also going to, uh, share my screen. I'm going to drop in getresponding.com, the the URL for Lewis's website right into the chat here. And I will share my screen very quickly as I like to do here because it's just uh, it's just easier for everybody. And while I'm sharing, Lewis, my friend, where where are you based? There we go. I'm in the UK, so across the pond from most of you guys on the call today. Um, but yeah, Pete, uh, really appreciate you having this call. I know a lot of people kind of pay a lot of money for this type of info. Um, really appreciate what you and Jason have been doing. So, thank you first of all. Um, so little bit of context as to what Get Responding is. We have built this business. Um, it is my startup. We have specifically built Eevee, which is an AI assistant. The best way of explaining what Evie does is she gets dropped into your business, works with your sales and marketing team to save them 20 hours every time you respond to an RFP, RFI or tender. We have built this out of the pain point of um me experiencing the traditional process which typically looked like searching through past content, writing the responses out manually, loads of copy and pasting. Through this process, we've spoke to over 100 businesses. The average time frame to get to a first draft is a week. Um, complex deals can take a lot longer. With our platform, we can get businesses there in 90 seconds. EV can understand the ins and outs of your business and write a tailored first draft response to an RFP in literally 90 seconds, a couple of minutes. We have had some amazing feedback so far. We know there's a good market for this. A lot of businesses are taking off. Um, one of them is YC funded as well. And the biggest problem we have currently um isn't demos. We're getting a lot of demos in obviously would always love more, but it's converting the prospects from that initial demo to a one deal. Um, we're a new startup. It's my first major business. We have just on boarded our first customer. have two more looking to go live in the next quarter and would really appreciate some advice around what I can do to get clients from that first initial demo to a one deal. So are you is your issue right now the top of funnel like you can't get you're not finding enough people to talk to to actually get them into the pipeline or is it that hey we get a lot of people who have intrigue but actually getting them to close and start using it is the issue or is it both more so the latter it's getting the close so I have come from a delivery background I've spent the last 12 months in enterprise sales but since building this business it's all new to me I'm learning from scratch making the mistakes, learning as I go along and we've done a ton of changes and improvements which have helped me um reduce that cycle and you know make more progress in the pipeline but would really appreciate from uh sort of yourself and anyone else what tips and advice they would do to close the enterprise sale faster. I'm going to share the screen again. So well I'll give you my two cents first and then I'll let let Jason chime in and and the audience too. By the way, audience, audience, you guys have been so great uh during these sections giving advice to uh to the the the folks joining like Lewis today. Uh we just have like such a collective power behind the hundreds of people who are in here. So, please please give your advice into the chat. Uh everyone's everyone's super valuable here. My two cents to start and this is this is sort of like so I'm a a huge believer in just proddding pain points like like into oblivion. Um, and I don't in this specific, you know, kind of land like landing page marketing website that I'm looking at, I don't see you yelling like really poking those too hard, which leads me to believe maybe that's also not happening further down the sales cycle. The clearest example I can give of this is turn proposal hell into one deals. So, I'm just wondering like what is proposal hell? And like I've worked in sales and marketing for over a decade, right? Like I I mean I I I get where it can be annoying, but I don't I'm not quite grasping the specifics of the problem that you're trying to latch on to and I could see where, you know, if that vagueness carries itself further into the into the um the sales process, further down the pipeline on those future calls. Uh I I I could see that making an impact negative impact for you. But um curious if Jason has any thoughts and the rest of the crowd here. Yeah, a couple things. So, if you haven't yet, I would think about cuz this could be a prospecting problem, too. Like, are we speaking to the right buyer and the right company? So, if you're selling it, what's your average uh what's your ECB? So, for each deal, average is coming at about £55,000. It's £4,200 for a five person team. That's an annual. Yeah. Across the 12 months. So, that's not an enterprise sales motion. That is that's like an SMB sales motion. That should be really really quick, right? So like what I would be thinking is um are we selling that solution to the right companies? And then the second one, are you speaking to the right person? So like what the the the messaging on the site feels very below the line. It feels very much like what you would send to a rep. Reps aren't buying the solution. Um I think if you kind of chunk up and let me share my screen real quick. This exercise is super helpful if you haven't done something like this before. Um, this is one of the first things we typically do with a client is we create a messaging matrix. So, we basically say what is the business goal that our solution helps with. Yours is revenue, right? It's not operating expenses. What's the objective of the buyer? My assumption would be that you're selling to like a VP of sales. If it's a smaller company or maybe a head of sales or if it's a larger company, it' be someone in like some type of revops role. Like what are the objectives and key results that they have? How do they get the job done now? What are the problems with that? And what are the aspirations? I think if you can map to that, my hunch would be like if you had to just guess right now, what percentage of deals are you getting access to power? like an executive is in that deal, like they're a part of the sales process, etc. What what percentage of deals are you guys getting access to that executive buyer? In its entirety since starting the business, I would probably say less than 10. In the past 3 months, I'd probably say 30 or 40%. We've changed the initial approach. Um, out of the last 10 initial first demo calls, uh, seven of them, eight of them maybe have been with the key decision makers. So SVPs, uh, sales directors, the people that would be making the decision, signing it off. That's great. So my last piece of advice then would be, and I don't know what you're saying or what the messaging is, but I'm wondering how you're chunking up to what that individual cares about. Like I think the thing that I would have them pull is like like their win rate when when they have to RFP. Yeah. Um, the average reply time. It's it's like if you can quantify the cost and then give them some sort of ROI analysis on like, hey, typically we're increasing win rates by 10% or 20% or whatever it is. If you can quantify the cost of an action, I think you can put something in front of them that is much more compelling. But that 90 seconds versus one week thing, I think is really big. Um, and actually I got one more tip. Uh, I don't know how closely you're taking a look at closed loss reasons, but that's something I would if I was working with you guys want to look at, too. Like, why are you guys losing deals? Do people already have a solution in place and they're just sticking to status quo? Do they end up going with a competitor instead? Do they not have budget? Like, that's going to tell you a lot, too. Biggest reason why they get close lost is the deals fizzle out more than anything. They have the initial calls, give some good feedback, then it just goes quieter and quieter until they ghost me. That so there was a comment in here. Man, you guys are first of all just being audience. You guys are being fantastic with all the feedback. Lewis, after after you you hop off definitely scroll through all of these, but somebody was said, yeah, Dana said small agency here proposals aren't a painoint. So for Dana that's just so I mean going back to Jason's first question really identifying exactly who is over like who is actually going through proposal hell like what does that mean and who is experiencing it because I I personally haven't really experienced it like I I've always been able to stay on top of that and especially with with AI being able to like handle more of proposal generation and and organization. So, um, but there's got to be somebody. I mean, I well, I don't want to say got to be. Uh, you, one would think there's somebody out there who's really drowning in this problem. Uh, and it's just a matter of of uh Oh, Taylor says logistics software vendor. Taylor, you're drowning in in proposal hell. Um, there we go. One uh one other thing, too, is like I have clients that sell a lot in in the US to SLED and federal. There's a lot of like it's mandatory RFP. Yeah. you know, for those types of so I don't know if you have a way of targeting people that have a bit more of the pain. But dude, the number one reason for ghosting is usually we're not getting to power. And two, when we get to power, we're not attaching to a business outcome. It's like it's easy for me to say outbound sales training, but it's like, dude, the business outcome is you just launched a new product and your sales reps need to go outbound in order to get this additional product in the hands of existing customers and new customers. Like that's the business priority I attach training to. So that chunking up, I'd be curious to see what that is for you that you guys chunk up to and can attach to. Yeah, perfect. That sounds great. We did a big exercise a couple of days ago. Um, every demo I spend 10 15 minutes on discovery, understanding the pain points and frustrations. I've done a big load of work around chunking these up to see what are the most common pain points against certain roles. Um, biggest ones time consuming. um looking through past content, curating the best responses, dealing with inconsistent writing styles when there's five to 10 people involved. Um so I've got much better clarity on this and I've not updated my website um since doing this. I've just updated my outbound campaign to uh really target this for decision makers. So someone asked just one last thing, Pete. Uh someone asked uh can you define chunking up? It's chunking up is taking pain. Proposals take too long to write. Chunking up to a business outcome. We're not closing enough business. We just launched a new product and our win rate is XYZ. We're losing too much to competitor XYZ. Like that's a business outcome that we can that we can chunk the pain up to something that affects the entire business. Um there's a few good ICP hints I'll say in the in the chat here. Um someone says I used to have this pain a lot in consulting. Uh Kirsten said in supply chain logistics uh RFPs were unorganized, lengthy and then in all caps hell. Um Taylor said logistics software vendor confirming this. Uh I hear you all of this. So uh yeah, logistics uh RFPs are a headache. Nuance questions lengthy as lengthy AF. Um I don't know why whatever censored that we're called unfuck my startup over here. But um so regardless I think uh and then are you zoning in on one specific type of company yet or you're still in the exploration mode where you're a little bit general on your ICP right now Louis ICP is mid-market businesses so typically 100 to a thousand employees across software um IT services marketing and logistics. So we've narrowed it down to that. Um I am thinking about niching down even further but we're getting interest from all those areas. Yeah, I mean uh if I mean you know way more than I do, but it seems like logistics is getting a lot of love here. I've been on the sales marketing side uh for a marketing software less of an issue over here. Now that's one that's literally a sample size of one. So that's anecdotal. Okay, that's just one little anecdote there. But um yeah, niche down as small as possible. I would say uh that's always my advice starting out like as small as small as possible and then you'll be able to bubble up from there or bubble out. Okay. Uh and it's usually very clear what the next thing is too uh from there. But um Lewis, thank you my friend. Thank you for coming on. Sure. Perfect. Really appreciate it. It's nice and sunny over there in the UK. I'm sure that's uh sometimes a rarity. So life is pretty good. Uh thank you for joining Lewis. Uh and and go ahead read through some of these uh these things. There's a lot of good stuff. Good stuff in the chat. Yeah, I know. I like can't even keep up with it. It's like a overwhelming amount of value uh being provided by the the audience here. Um, so that's great. Um, Jason, do you want to talk more about the offer? Do you want to get more into like kind of channel tactics, you know, kind of what's working for the sales folks that you work with? Yeah, I think we're good on the offer. We probably get to some of the other stuff. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, you know, I started my career over a decade ago. uh we were doing really spray and pray high volume both phone call and email um now you know sometime around like 20 I don't know maybe like right after co or something uh or or during uh it seemed like there was just this monumental shift in how uh people were finding predictable revenue or how that kind of old predictable revenue model was working. Um, you talked a lot about going smaller, kind of those onetoone offers. Um, I'm curious what is sort of work and and we can kind of chunk this up by persona type if you want to bucket it out, you know, but I'm curious what what are the things that you're seeing kind of most that are most replicable company to company uh today when it comes to cold outreach, whether that's channels, tactics, you know, within that channel uh and so forth. Definitely. So I kind of think about this in four parts. There's four ways to capture attention. One is through volume. Two, we've talked a lot about offer. Three is relevance in messaging. And then four is delivery. So delivery is you just can't discount, you know, everyone's had that person they've hopped on a sales call with where you're just like like this this man or woman's got so much charisma that it's just like it's hard to say no to type of thing, you know. Um, so if we look at volume, volume has been the play since sequences came out. Um, I'm I'm old enough to send cold emails back on a time where we didn't have sequences. I had to send all of the like I could I could through merge tag send the first email, but I would have to manually bump the email. So when sequences came out, it felt like a little bit like a like a, you know, easy button. volume only works in channels that are not super condensed and super overwhelmed with existing volume. So like after COVID came and everyone was in office like email just exploded, right? Everyone was getting emails. Email is an incredibly crowded uh inbox, right? Calls are actually kind of coming back. Fewer people are getting calls. I I rarely get cold calls these days. I might get a couple per day. Most of your buyers don't get a lot of cold calls. So volume, the way we have to think about it is we have to be multi- channelannel and like phone, you have to do phone. Phone is only dead if you stuck at it. Okay, the the stats show that uh top reps will book 16 to 25% of the connected calls into a meeting. It's really about like being very strategic with it. So the ideal weekly touch pattern looks something like this. From a volume standpoint, you want to reach out to someone about 12 to 15 times over three weeks. It's going to be six phone calls, six emails, three social touches. And and that's a good starting point. You can adjust depending on what you see personally. Um each week you're going to do a third of that, right? Over three weeks. I'm going to call someone twice, email twice, one social touch. So, when I call someone, what I'm going to do if they don't pick up is leave a voicemail and I'm going to point them to the email and instead of asking for a call back, I'm going to say, "Just sent you an email. Um, we've been working with XYZ competitors and one thing that we found is that they're increasing average order size by XYZ by doing a couple things I mentioned in the email. Go check it out. Subject line is XYZ." The cool part about voicemail is that even if people don't pick up the phone, leaving voicemails will double your email reply rate. Double your email reply rate. Yep. So, there's some really, really cool data that Gong did and they looked at sequences that had voicemails, calls and voicemails versus ones that don't. And voicemails will double your email reply rate. The idea there again is I'm not going to ask for a call back. I'm just going to point them to the email that I sent them. So, that's the sample of what like a weekly touch pattern could look like is I might call on a Tuesday and then I'll immediately email and hit up on LinkedIn and then on a Thursday I'll bump that email and then I'll call again and I'm just going to follow that same touch pattern for 3 weeks. Let's uh let's clarify there's some conversation in the chat. Uh clarify the number of touch points over the time period. Could you can you give that to to us one more time? So, 15 touches over three weeks. I'll drop it into the chat. 15 touches over three weeks. And that's divided evenly amongst uh email, phone, and social. Yeah. So, basically, you're going to do six email, six phone, three social. There it is, guys. I'm dropping that into the chat right now. And then there was somebody else uh said, "Oh yeah, Jeff said, "Jason, I'm terrified of doing too much cold outreach in case all my emails end up in spam folder and damage my domain. What is a safe amount of cold emails to send daily?" Well, I guess this is a little bit more of a loaded question than I thought, but regardless, so with email deliverability, um it's a totally valid thing to not want your domain to get, you know, spam. Register a new domain. So for me, it's outboundsquad.com. I might register outboundsquad.co to send all my cold emails through. Um, and then I'm going to warm up uh the emails. So, when you warm up a new email and domain, like you don't want to send a bunch, you don't want to register that domain and just start blasting a bunch of cold emails. Takes two to three weeks to warm it up. So, you're going to start a new email address and you're going to subscribe to newsletters. You're going to send emails back and forth to people that you know and get a reply. And there's tools that will actually warm this up for you. One of them, you know, the the dude pitched earlier today, right? So like this stuff is built into a lot of tools now. Uh but that's the best way to to think about email deliverability. You really don't want to send more than 50 emails per day from one single for one domain. From one domain. Yeah. Yeah. And I think too like so um by the way Nathan's dropping in some good uh some good name.com getname.com. Yeah. Any any variation of your website is most likely going to be pretty cheap. um if you're using all domain extensions or adding get dash or whatever it might be. So you can kind of get a bunch and warm them up at once. Um and then from Okay, so you're really talking about all of these. You're not thinking of social touches, email, phone in kind of separated silos. These are all a part of one attentiongrabbing awareness seeking camp, you know, really effort towards a specific person. Um, do you in in that same idea? Um, I've done some campaigns in the past where depending on the product, the audience I'm selling to, I'll rope in other people who may be champions of the deal, but they're not going to be I know they're not the economic buyer. They're not the decision maker. My goal there is just to have more like basically have another level of awareness hopefully to hit that key decision maker. Is that something you think about too? Yeah. So what I would look at is everyone's sales process and cycle is going to be a little bit different. Look at your last like dozen closed one deals and look at who the first meetings were. Like for me would I love to do first meetings with VP senior VPs of sales and cos yeah but at a large company it never starts there. It rarely starts there unless it's like an introduction. So I'm going to want to get a meeting with like the director of sales. That's a really good first person for me to meet with. A director of sales development, a head of sales enablement. Those are the people I'm typically starting with. So, depends on the size of business that you're selling to, but if you're selling mid-market or enterprise, it's probably going to be with someone on the power line at a director level that you're going to get that first meeting with. If you're selling SMB, like start at the top, you know, get the get the meeting with the owner of the company if possible. Definitely. Yeah. also to like keep uh I've always tried to be very like very focused on who exactly specific campaigns going out to. So like if I'm whatever launching a new campaign, we launched a new feature and I have four different personas uh all with the goal of reaching the same economic buyer, my offer towards each of those four people is going to be slightly different because let's say I'm going I want to talk to a VP of sales, but I need to get through an AE first. like I'm gonna have some like pretty sweet AE offer that that VP of sales isn't really going to care about. It might not be really related to the end thing that I'm trying to sell. But what it does do is sells awareness or sales progress down the pipeline. And I think that's the, you know, when you when you think about your offer, think about who it's going to and what the goal of that offer is. Um, I mean, if you have a multi multi call uh sales cycle just because that's what your product requires, the goal of the first call is just to sell the second call. I mean, the goal of your email is just to sell a meeting. Like, that is it. Like, do not try to sell more than that. Otherwise, you're going to cloud the message. Uh, and and and that's that. So, um, let's grab we got about 10 minutes left. Uh, there's a ton of questions in here. Uh, I want to get to I'm also going to check the Q&A section, too, to see if there's anything in here. Um, oh, we already answered that one, so that's easy. Um, Jason, what would be a great open rate for an email sequence? Do you have a do you have a benchmark that you look at? Yeah, 40 plus percent is sort of the guiding northstar. Um, you want to be higher than that, but it's open rates. they're turning into a bit of a vanity metric because it can be thrown off by spam filters. So, it's going to register and open when you email most companies now. Like their spam filter is going to open that thing and look at it and it's going to throw off your your email like open rate. But generally, if you saw something below 40%, it would be a little bit of a red flag from a deliverability standpoint. Yeah. Okay. Actually, I have a question about uh well, I'll answer Sam's question here. Is each week's topic different here? Building on the previous Sam, each week is pretty different, but we're a sales and marketing show. We're trying to get revenue in this show. Uh that that that's what we do. Um I have a question about phone spam. So, the last time I ran phone campaigns was probably 2021. Uh this was co this was kind of midco depending on where you lived. Uh and no one was really in the office. We were talking to folks who generally would be in the office. Um, and we were experiencing there was just this I remember this like very big inflection point where all of a sudden one month, let's call it like June of 2021, we could not like every new number that we got would get picked up as spam. Um, so I'm curious, is there infrastructure similar to the way that we just went through on email where you need to be warming up domains? You need to be rotate, you know, doing inbox rotation, um, sending a small amounts of, you know, no more than 50 emails as you said per day per is there a similar uh kind of type of best practices that exist in phone just given the I mean our phones are pretty good at picking up spam now. Yeah, there's all kinds of different tools out there to get phone numbers, but one of the most basic things that you can do is when you set up a dialer on the computer, just call your cell phone and see what pops up. If it pops up as spam, you need to change it. But, uh, in general, what I would do is you want a sales engagement platform or dialer that allows you to change the phone number because you get significant diminishing returns calling a person from the same number. After the third or fourth dial, like the pickup rate goes down dramatically. So, you want something that ideally we're running that three-week sequence where they get a couple calls from us each week. It should be from a different phone number each week. Yeah. Okay. I like that. And not So, there was this Man, I can't remember when it was, but when the Dial Out Local thing came about, I think this was like 10 years ago, that became that was huge. All of a sudden, we were all picking up, you know, calls. I'm like, "Oh my gosh, Albany, New York. Like, who's calling me from my my childhood hometown?" Um and uh then I think that became a sign that it was spam. Is there uh are there any like practices there? Someone also asked what dialer tool you recommend. So anything in the tool space would be Yeah. So what you want to do with local dialing is just test it like everything else. It's going to depend on what you sell, but Oram, they did a really and ORM is the tool that I would recommend. They are a sponsor of mine, by the way, and I do partner with them, but they're they're the best tool out there from a dialing standpoint. um they commissioned a really big study. They looked at millions of outbound dials and what they found is that when they used local phone numbers, the pickup rate was actually a little bit lower when they used those local numbers. So that was across a really big uh set of data. I would just test it, see if it helps the open rate or the pickup rate or not. Is that most of the time it doesn't? Okay. Yeah, that makes sense. Is that one of those tools where it's dialing multiple calls at once or is it just powering through kind of singular the singular number but you know what I mean? Like there's some that'll dial six numbers at once and then whoever picks up it'll hang up on the others. Yeah. So there's different types of dialers. So there's a and it'll do all of these. Uh click to dial is literally I'm opening up the contact and I have to click on the phone number. It'll dial through the computer. Power dialing is I can set up a list and it'll just without me having to click on it. It'll dial. If they don't pick up it'll hang up. It'll dial the next one. but you're going to hear it ringing. Uh parallel dialing. Um this is where it has multiple phone numbers going out. So it might have dozens of phone lines open up at the same time and then when someone picks up, you don't even hear them say hello because it takes a bit of a second to like attach the phone call to you. You hear a little beep and you just start talking. So that's something that you could check out. Those those tools work really well. Um, I would say from an enterprise standpoint, it's a little tricky to use a parallel dialer because you want to be able to have some research that you've looked at and said and you can load those into fields you with a tool like Orum, but you just want to make sure it's a lot of upfront work to be able to do that. Um, the other thing that I would say to someone asked this, when does the phone not make sense? Um, yeah, you guys might be reaching out into a an industry or customer base that responds really well to email or social. Maybe you don't have to use the phone, but statistically your contact rate is going to increase by 3.1x. Sales Loft did a really big study on this by using multiple channels, by using phone plus email plus social. So, um, the idea with phone is that don't use low pickup rates as a reason to use or not use the phone cuz you have voicemails and voicemails will increase the reply rates. So, just test it. Do you ever do um on LinkedIn and socials? I know you interact with folks. Do you do let's just use LinkedIn as an example because a lot of the folks in here are B2B. Um, do you do like LinkedIn voicemails, LinkedIn embedded videos, inmail? Do you do anything in terms of outreach in there? And if so, is there any specific route you've seen work better than others? And that was going to be I mean, I run the inbound. Yeah, I run the inbound le outbound kind of thing that you guys talk about a lot, right? Where someone engages with a post and I'm like, I might send them an email or send them a DM in LinkedIn or pick up the phone and call them. For me, I love the phone because it just everything happens way faster over the phone and I can I can show my personality and convey expertise and all of that kind of stuff in in a matter of seconds. Um, I don't use voice notes really. I've have not personally found a lot of success with them because the people I'm reaching out to are pretty busy and listening to a 60-second voice note takes a lot longer than skimming an email that takes about 5 seconds. That's me personally. That doesn't mean that you shouldn't try it and see if it works. Video however can be very effective depending on what you sell. So in the example I gave earlier around the ecom solution and doing like a you know a cart analysis video enhances that message because I can visually show them the cart and what I'm looking at. So I would think about with video if it enhances the message give it a shot see how it works. If it's just you talking head like this saying hi, that in my experience has kind of gone out of style. That was really cool in 2018. That was like all I talked about in 2017 and 18 was sending videos in your in your prospecting outreach. People have seen this now. And there's also ways to fake it with AI. So, it's not such a novel thing to get anymore. Um, agree with that. Uh, and someone asked about AI tool to leave voicemails in your own voice at scale. Do you do any automation there? Is it all kind of pretty manual? I know some of the dialers will you can record your voicemail and and then have it drop that automatically. Is there another tool you've used for that? I'm not I'm not aware of an AI tool that will record the voicemail for you using your voice. That's pretty [ __ ] scary. Um, I know there are tools that will do that with videos. Um, you know, I'm kind of like from a morality standpoint, I really don't like using fake AI stuff and pretending like it's real. That's just me. Um, that doesn't mean it's not worth trying. Voicemail drops can be really effective though, too. There's a way, there's an art to leaving a voicemail that is like templated that doesn't sound templated where you don't even say the person's name, but you could drop the subject line, let's say, in the voicemail and use the same subject line across a big set of prospects and it sounds like it's customized. It's really an art. So, yeah, I would recommend using that. I haven't tested this. If there's AI tools that do that, like, yeah, give it a shot. Why not? Yeah, why not? I'm But by the way, we have the same fear. It's I'm like, man, AI's already uh well, for lack of a better term, ruined a lot of email. Um there's still with people on email, but in general, too, I mean, you know, I know a lot of people here follow Adam on LinkedIn or or some of the other people that that post from our company, everything is manually written. I mean, yeah. Yeah. I mean, I I for the most part, yeah, I mean, virtually everything's manually written. Um it's just there's this like there's still this there's still this gap where people can sense something if something is AI whether that's a photo a video especially people who were probably in this you know attending right now like I don't know B2B SAS tech people like probably more sensitive and and have a better you know a better radar for that kind of stuff. Um, lastly, what uh what was that that phone tool you mentioned, Jason? I want to pop the URL right in here uh into the chat. Uh or ru. All right, guys. I got the URL into here. Oram. Uh there it is. Heck yeah. All right, I'm dropping Oram in here. Uh this is too long of a URL. I don't know what's happening. Sorry. Okay. Um, well guys, the recording to this show uh is going to go live probably tomorrow, maybe maybe two days. Uh, Jason, you are a freaking killer every time. Just just such great info. Uh, where can people find you check out more if they want to they want to learn more from Jason Bay? Uh, LinkedIn, you know, you can search for Jason Bay. Outboundsquad.com's the the best place probably to find us. It's got a bunch of free content in there. It'll tell you all about what we do and who we help. Um, if there if you run a company or run a sales team and you heard something interesting today and you're like, you know, I'd like to see how I stack up against some of the Shopifies and gongs of the world, uh, reach out to me. Um, you can do it via the website and, uh, would love to chat with you. It's it's what we help teams with day in and day out. Uh, some of our trainers are bestin-class. We have previous, you know, heads of sales at outreach, previous president's club earners. Um, we hire the best of the best from a training standpoint. So, let us know if we can be of help. Heck yeah. And uh I was just reminded by John, our video producer. He says the replay on YouTube starts immediately. Uh so you can head over to our YouTube channel uh YouTube retention Adam and uh check out the recording there. Next week we have Eric Sue. He's uh CEO of Single Grain SEO total guru co-host a podcast with Neil Patel. One of the biggest marketing podcasts out there. That is sure to be a good show. Come on back next week. Jason, you were the freaking man. We have to have you back if if you're willing. We would love to have you back yet again. Uh thank you so much for joining in.