# How We Send 8M Cold Emails/Month with Claude and Clay.com

- **Author:** Eric Nowoslawski
- **Video ID:** s2hShfYo7Wo
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s2hShfYo7Wo
- **Published:** 2026-02-27
- **Collected:** 2026-06-20

## Summary

Walkthrough of Growth Engine X's high-volume Clay + Claude outbound stack: segmentation, AI messaging, and campaign testing at agency scale.

## Transcript

Hey everyone. In today's video, we're going to go over how we use Claude Code and Clay.com in order to send 8 million emails per month on behalf of our customers and how we do all of that processing between finding emails, enriching the leads, segmenting the leads, putting them into sequencers, everything. So, if you are a founder or a goto market leader and you want to look at automating more of your outbound campaigns, I hope this would give you some ideas of what we use Claude Code for, what we use Clay for, and the general process that we go through. But if you don't know who I am, my name is Eric Noowski and I uh run an agency called Growth EngineX where last year in 2025, we generated 62,000 uh plus positive responses on behalf of our customers. And every single week we run 25 million clay enrichments and we're processing about 2 million contacts per day. And for anybody who's saying, "Hey, this doesn't math. Why how are you processing 2 million contacts per day, but you're sending 8 million emails?" It's just because because of validation and segmentation and all these things, a lot of the contacts get dropped off and uh those kind of things. So that's just what we're processing there. But you could see how the math works out over here. uh because one row is a contact and then these are the enrichments. So I actually under quoted I said 25 million but actually we do 27.8 million in our last February 2nd to February 8th uh timeline and that was even down a little bit and then the rows updated are just the contacts that we're processing. So you can believe me on these numbers we really push a lot of scale through this and this is my clay uh analytics that we get from their tool. And so, why do we use Claude code? Why do we use Clay? What are the problems that we're trying to solve here? And how do they apply to everybody who could be watching this video, even if you're not sending 8 million emails a month? And so, the first problem is that Clay has built in a phenomenal queuing system that if you were to try to build yourself, I mean, you could have the same API key hitting the same endpoint across 30 different tables and they're managing all the rate limits for you, which is just absolutely amazing. The API rate limit bottleneck that we'll hit though is uh they are queuing all of those rate limits or those endpoints for us and those requests. And what might happen is every day my team was waking up getting started at 8 a.m. And then we'll get into the manual CSV uploads which was the worst part. Uh then they would start hitting it all the end points because they were uploading all the CSVs to keep their uh clients campaigns full. And then we'd have all these rate limits hitting. We didn't have enough leads in the campaigns. we'd start panicking. It was just a crazy crazy thing. So, what we now do is we process everything at 2:00 in the morning. So, between 2 to 9, there's so much time for it to be able to process within the clay table that we don't have to worry about this anymore. Uh, so that's the first problem we needed to solve was we were hitting our APIs way too hard. Clay was queuing them perfectly, but it was just a ton of scale for the endpoints that we're using. The second problem that we can solve with this system is we can way, way, way more accurately forecast how many leads we have in a list. So, I'm sure if you've launched some outbound campaigns, you know the pain of you pull the contacts from a tool, it says you have 100,000 contacts. So, you say, "Okay, great. I'm going to be good for a little while." But after you find emails for those contacts, we usually find that we're getting anywhere, depending on the industry, of 50 to 70% of those emails that we can actually validate. So now when you go to send, you're not you don't have 100,000 contacts to send to, you have 60,000 contacts to send to. And in our business for our customers, a lot of times we have volume targets that we need to hit for them. And we need to be able to forecast, okay, when do we need to go get a new list? When do we need to go get a new source? Do we need to expand the job titles? Do we need to expand the industries? Do we need to find better companies? Whatever it might be, we need this forecasting so we know when we need to pick up on this and everything. But the biggest reason we use cloud code more than anything is because my team was processing all 11 million of those rows were coming from manual CSV file imports. And I literally at one point had three people employed on my team that all they did was download CSVs from data providers and then upload those CSVs into clay templates that were already done. They already made. They were perfect, but it was just a a crazy operation and I can't believe we we were even doing it. So, Cloud Code solves all these problems for us and I want to get into how. So, the first problem that we have to solve in this cold email supply chain is we first need to get the data. What companies are we targeting? What contacts are we targeting? The second thing we need to store them and we do all of our validation, our email validation uh in our second phase. And then our third phase, how are we going to put them into clay? So we can get our segmentation, our AI, our clay agents, our customizations, our personalizations, all of our Asians into our uh clay tables and then put those into our sequencing tools. So everything starts off in the prospio API where we are using their uh tool literally you can create a a filter in the user interface and then in one click you can get the JSON to make the request. We have an internal app in our team where you literally drop in that JSON request. It automatically creates the clay table using the behind the firewall API keys, the network request API keys if you will. We scrape the entire Prospio search. We then create the clay tables. We organize that inside of Superbase. And then there's another table where we keep all those contacts into Superbase as well too. So then we know how many contacts, we know what contacts should be going to what campaign. We also can make sure that we're dduping both on the LinkedIn profile URL and we're dduping on the email address so that we don't have any uh crossover or duplicates in the the table. So Cloud Code set up an internal app for us to be able to get the Prospio API scraped and then it did all of the setup and superbase for us as well too to be able to store the leads and then that's also where we do our email finding. So we also use cloud code to write edge functions for us to run our own email waterfall so that we could find all the emails beforehand which helps us with that forecasting piece that I was talking about and then we send it over to Clay which I have more slides about all of this and so we will get into it and so this is just an explanation of Claude code built the databases the code to pull the prosp,000 contacts that's going to go over your search. So cloud code is automatically if the search has 250,000 contacts, it's automatically creating 10 different searches for it. And then it also set up trigger.dev to do the sending from Superbase to Clay, which we'll get into in a little bit. And so everything is in Superbase. We have all of the uh leads in one table indexed by the client ID and then another index under that with the campaign ID. We cache all the our emails in there and all that crazy stuff. I think we're going to talk about this in a second. Yes. So, uh then the way that we find the emails is we also have a superbase car carrying a historical record of every email address that we've ever found across any of our customers and the date that we validated that. So, let's take a step back because I know I talk really fast about these things. What we have now been able to do is you can create a perfect search in the Prospio user interface. We then use the API to pull out all of the contacts from the Prospio interface and put them into Superbase. Claude Code took care of all of those things. Now they're sitting inside of Superbase. Every hour we're running an edge function for any contact that has enrichment. There's a we have a column that says enrichment true or false for have we tried to find this person's email address before? And so what we do is if we haven't found their email address before, we first follow this process. First we see with this LinkedIn URL slug, have we found this email before and are they in our cache? If yes, did we validate their email less than 90 days ago? If that is also true, then we keep that email address. If that is not true, we use the million verifier API to revalidate the email. As long as it still comes back valid, we're good to go and we're going to keep it. The second thing that we do is if we don't have the person's email and they're not in our database cache, we then again use the Prospio API to find the emails. Now, this is a decision that we made off of quality, speed, and some of the other features that we get out of the Prospio API. Uh, one for quality, we've done a lot of checks with Prosperio API, and it's a phenomenal email finding service. and it's very fast uh as far as how many requests we can send per second and what we get back and and all those other things. But third, probably my favorite part is the fact that they uh put on their site that every email that goes through their verification also goes through BounceBan. So that if any of the uh emails are catchall emails, they were validated by Bounceban. And so then we trust them. Actually, we've been trusting the Prospio emails without validating them again with million verifier because we want to keep those catch-all emails that were validated by bounceband and we haven't seen an increase in our bounces and it's been tremendous to be able to use that. And so, um, we use the Prosper API second because of the speed and the quality and the bounce band feature inside of that. The final verification layer that we use is the smart lead email finding tool. So, Smartle just recently released an API that you can look up emails uh from Smartle as an API product and I've personally been loving it. It's at the end because it we are using our smart lead API for so many other things but also um it is a little bit slow and it takes a little bit for the requests to get back. So, it actually takes a long time to be able to run this. But what I love about the smart lead API is that it is based on the actual sending data of the platform and them saying, "Hey, we have sent an email or another user has sent an email to this email address and it was fine to send to. This is probably their email address. Here you go." And then you'll even see in the request it even says, "Hey, this email comes from us." So you get all of that benefit, but it was also validated by Lead Magic or it was validated by any MailFinder. All of those things are in the request and that's why we put it in in there. So if we have it in our cache, it's basically free and we just reuse it. Then we have Prospio and we're just using that because it's it's faster and it's validated by bounceban. And then we use smart lead only at the end because it's just a little bit slower, but I also love using that. And then that's kind of the end of our waterfall. I mean, we will use others on a weekly basis to just clean a couple of things up. Um, but that's the main kind of waterfall that we're using there as well. and cloud code took care of all of this orchestration for us. The edge function, the cron job to run it every hour, you know, the caching, it it's running everything for us on this side. So, uh, now what we've accomplished, like I said, let's just take a step back. What we've now accomplished is we can take any list out of Prospio, pull it out of Prospio, store it in Superbase. Every hour, any contact that we haven't found a email for, we run it through our cache and that waterfall. So now what we need to be able to do is automatically get these leads that have not been put into a campaign for this client yet into our Clay tables. And so Claude again set up all this orchestration on trigger.dev for us where we have a workflow that every day at 2 in the morning our web hooks fire over to Clay. Insider tip if you're going to set this up for yourself. Clay's web hooks are limited on a workspace level. So, I definitely recommend sending like 25 contacts per web hook so you can be as efficient as possible. Every morning at 2 am, we trigger the web hooks. This takes every lead with a verified email and pushes them to the web hook that they're associated with that we all keep track of and it pushes them to the web hook of the clay table that they're associated with where we we don't have to do our email verification because that's already done. But we can do our company description uh enrichments. We can do our segmentation. We can do our job title segmentation. We can do our AI generated messaging. Our clients to find company case studies. Whatever we need to do, all happens inside of clay.com. And so I see a lot of people, and this is probably a good time to address this one. I've started seeing some people say, "Ericlowski doesn't use clay.com anymore. He's only using cloud code. There there's no way that that's true." And a lot of people will even ask me, "Hey, with how good Claude Code is getting, why do you even need to use Clay?" And so I want to remind everybody that well actually here's a story I'm dealing with right now. I have a internal tool that we use for the team and it has had the same problem maybe ever since I built it 6 weeks ago. It has the same problem. It breaks all the time and it's just really really annoying and it's very brittle and I I I I have used claw code to try to solve it. I've used codeex. I've tried everything to try to solve it. It's really annoying and it just breaks all the time. And when it comes to this super important final mile delivery of our leads, I just don't want that delivery to be some kind of vibecoded thing that I just came up with myself. In Clay, we have the visual clay table builder that lets us visually see, okay, if they are a director of finance, they get this message. And if they are a head of marketing, they're going to get this message. and then we can see the AI prompts move along and we can see those visually, etc., etc. When you vibe code something, you don't get to see all of that. And sometimes there might be an exception to a rule that you didn't see visually and then you're going to start sending crazy emails to people that you didn't intend. Second part is they're hosting everything and they're taking care of the cloud and making sure everything runs and connecting to APIs and and all that other crazy stuff. And so, uh, we need them for that. And then kind of relating back to the visual workflow builder, but when there's problems, there's something that you can actually look at instead of cloud code reading it and and doing all these other things. And so we are now using cloud code to do the super easy things, right? Like I'm making the same API call over and over and over again with different pageionation strategies in Prospio, which is super easy. We're storing it in Superbase, which is the easiest use case for that platform. And then we're doing email finding because that is the same every time that we do it, right? But when it comes to all the crazy workflows that we're doing and then dumping the leads into the sequencers into the campaigns, it's just not something that I really want am comfortable with trusting on cloud code just yet. And so that's why I call Clay is now our final mile enrichment source where we're doing all of this other stuff in the the cloud and then we'll do uh that stuff with cloud code or with clay I mean oh which is what I just talked about. Okay. And so if you are watching this, if you send, you know, if you're looking for under 5,000 emails a day, just use Clay's native tool. You don't really need to go this crazy. Um, but if you're going up in volume, I would def definitely recommend even just cashing the emails that you find just so you could just start saving money. Whether you're an agency or you're building a sales team and it's your first outbound motion, you're actually probably going to want to keep track of what emails you found and what emails you didn't find way more often than you might think. One good tip is, for instance, the Prospio API doesn't charge you again. If they've already found the email before in the API, they're not going to charge you again for it. And then Smart Lead is kind of like an unlimited pricing, so they're not going to charge you for it anyway. Um, but so for those of you who are looking and you're sending like 500 emails a day, don't worry about this at all. But if you're getting into, you know, a thousand 2,000 emails a day, you probably want to start thinking about how can you start using a database to keep some caching? How can you start getting a little bit more efficient? You're, if you're pulling all these lists, how can you do it better? And all those things. And so, I hope this video was useful. This is an exact step by step of how we're using Cloud Code to send these 8 million emails. And it's really cloud code using the Prospio API enriching sending it over to Clay. We are now processing gez I think now we have like 112 different web hooks that we're sending to and everything. So it's really scaled up quite tremendously and I I this system is great. I've those you know I literally had three people dedicated to doing just this and now we've been able to replace all of them. So I hope this gives you ideas. uh use this transcript and give it to Claude Code to see how you could build it yourself and all those things. And I hope I can see you on the next video. Thanks for watching everyone.